docs: High Availability for Pull Query documentation (#8157)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/operate-and-deploy/high-availability-pull-queries.md

preemptively catch failed nodes before a pull query arrives, so it can forward straight to a 
replica. That can be done as follows:

```properties
ksql.heartbeat.enable=true
ksql.lag.reporting.enable=true
```

The first configuration does heartbeating, which should significantly speed up request handling
during failures, as described above. The second allows for lag data of each of the standbys to be
collected and sent to the other nodes to make routing decisions. The lag in this case is how many
messages behind the active a given standby is. The user can even provide a threshold in a pull 
query request to avoid the greatest outliers if ensuring freshness is a priority:

 
```sql
SET 'ksql.query.pull.max.allowed.offset.lag'='100';
SELECT * FROM QUERYABLE_TABLE WHERE ID = 456;
```

This will cause the request to only consider standbys that are within 100 messages of the active
host.

With these configurations, you should be able to introduce as much redundancy as you require and
ensure that your pull queries succeed with controlled lag and low latency. 

!!! note 
   {{ site.ccloud }} is configured with HA enabled by default on clusters 8 CSUs or more.

>  

Reviewer: this is fantastic! thanks @AlanConfluent - only recommendation is to have a summary section at the beginning or the end listing all the configs in one place (to use as a reference)

Reviewer 2: Nice topic! Needs to be added to index.md and mkdocs,yml, to make the docs build happy.

Author: Ok, added a reference at the beginning.

Also added a link in both index and mkdocs

---
layout: page
title: ksqlDB High Availability Pull Queries
tagline: ksqlDB High Availability Pull Queries

> description: Instructions on how to set up high availability pull queries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Configure high availability pull queries in ksqlDB
```

---

> HA Configuration Reference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## High Availability configuration reference
```

> --------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The required configs for using high availability are summarized here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following list shows the required configs for using high availability (HA).
```

- [`ksql.advertised.listener`](../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqladvertisedlistener)
- [`ksql.streams.num.standby.replicas`](../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqlstreamsnumstandbyreplicas)
- [`ksql.query.pull.enable.standby.reads`](../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqlquerypullenablestandbyreads)
- [`ksql.heartbeat.enable`](../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqlheartbeatenable)
- [`ksql.lag.reporting.enable`](../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqllagreportingenable)

> High Availability for Pull Queries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## High Availability for pull queries
```

> ----------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ksqlDB supports [pull queries](../developer-guide/ksqldb-reference/select-pull-query.md) which are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ksqlDB supports [pull queries](../developer-guide/ksqldb-reference/select-pull-query.md), which
```

> used to query materialized state that is stored while executing a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you use to query materialized state that is stored while executing a 
```

[persistent query](../concepts/queries.md#persistent). This works without issue when all nodes in
your ksqlDB cluster are operating correctly, but what happens when a node storing that state goes 

> down? To start with, you must first start multiple nodes and make sure inter-node communication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
down? First, you must start multiple nodes and make sure inter-node communication
```

is configured so that query forwarding works correctly:

```properties
listeners=http://0.0.0.0:8088
ksql.advertised.listener=http://host1.example.com:8088
```

> The latter configuration is the url propagated to other nodes for inter-node requests, so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ksql.advertised.listener` configuration is the URL that is propagated to other nodes for inter-node requests, so
```

it must be reachable from other hosts/pods in the cluster. Inter-node requests are critical in a

> multi-node cluster and can be read about more [here](installation/server-config/index.md#configuring-listeners-of-a-ksqldb-cluster).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
multi-node cluster. For more information, see [configuring listeners of a ksqlDB cluster](installation/server-config/index.md#configuring-listeners-of-a-ksqldb-cluster).
```

> While waiting for a failed node to restart is one possibility, it may incur more downtime than you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While waiting for a failed node to restart is one possibility, this approach may incur more downtime than you
```

> want and it may not be possible if there is a more serious failure. The other possibility is to have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
want, and it may not be possible if there is a more serious failure. The other possibility is to have
```

replicas of the data, ready to go when they're needed. Fortunately, {{ site.kstreams }} provides a
mechanism to do this:

```properties
ksql.streams.num.standby.replicas=1
ksql.query.pull.enable.standby.reads=true
```

> This first configuration tells {{ site.kstreams }} that we want a separate task which will operate 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This first configuration tells {{ site.kstreams }} to use a separate task that operates 
```

independently of the active (writer) state store to build up a replica of the state. The

> second indicates that we want to allow reading from the replicas (a.k.a standbys) if we fail to read

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
second config indicates that reading is allowed from the replicas (a.k.a standbys) if reading fails
```

> from the active.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the active store.
```

> This is sufficient to allow for high availability pull queries in ksqlDB, but it requires every

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach is sufficient to enable high availability for pull queries in ksqlDB, but it requires that every
```

> request to try the active first. A better approach is to use a heartbeating mechanism to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
request must try the active first. A better approach is to use a _heartbeating_ mechanism to 
```

> preemptively catch failed nodes before a pull query arrives, so it can forward straight to a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
detect failed nodes preemptively, before a pull query arrives, so the request can forward straight to a 
```

> replica. That can be done as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
replica. Set the following configs to detect failed nodes preemptively.
```

```properties
ksql.heartbeat.enable=true
ksql.lag.reporting.enable=true
```

> The first configuration does heartbeating, which should significantly speed up request handling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first configuration enables heartbeating, which should improve the speed of request handling significantly
```

> during failures, as described above. The second allows for lag data of each of the standbys to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
during failures, as described above. The second config allows for lag data of each of the standbys to be
```

> collected and sent to the other nodes to make routing decisions. The lag in this case is how many

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
collected and sent to the other nodes to make routing decisions. In this case, the lag is defined by how many
```

> messages behind the active a given standby is. The user can even provide a threshold in a pull 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
messages behind the active a given standby is. You can even provide a threshold in a pull 
```

> query request to avoid the greatest outliers if ensuring freshness is a priority:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
query request to avoid the largest outliers if ensuring freshness is a priority:
```

 
```sql
SET 'ksql.query.pull.max.allowed.offset.lag'='100';
SELECT * FROM QUERYABLE_TABLE WHERE ID = 456;
```

> This will cause the request to only consider standbys that are within 100 messages of the active

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration causes the request to consider only standbys that are within 100 messages of the active
```

host.

> With these configurations, you should be able to introduce as much redundancy as you require and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With these configurations, you can introduce as much redundancy as you require and
```
